Well, today's text comments mention the effect that prejudice had on Jesus' disciples.
And as we think about that today, and how we are part of an organization that is much more diverse than in the first century,
it raises the question,
does prejudice still have an impact on God's people today?
We're very thankful that we love and serve a God who does not tolerate prejudice.
The Bible states that quite plainly, turn with me pleased to the book of Acts.
And we note the words of the Apostle Peter in Acts chapter 10.
In verse 34, it says that this Peter began to speak, and he said,
Now I truly understand that God is not partial, but in every nation,
the man who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him.
Now, if you look at the study note, it mentions that the Greek phrase for is not partial.
Literally means is not one who takes faces, and that perfectly describes Jehovah, doesn't it?
He does not favor one face, one individual over another because of their race, nationality, social standing, or any other external factors.
And that's how you and I strive to be as well.
However, we must acknowledge that it is a challenge to be impartial,
largely because in today's world, we are surrounded by prejudice.
So to answer that question, does prejudice have an impact on God's people today?
Indeed it does.
We may be victims of it,
or we ourselves might hold some prejudice.
Interestingly, the watchtower back in 2013 made this comment.
It said, if we are honest with ourselves, we have to admit that deep down,
we all harbor varying degrees of prejudice in one form or another.
So if this is something that is a human tendency and we're all plagued with it, at least to some degree,
then how do we overcome it?
Well, that might be helpful to start with the word itself.
As Mr. Lighthizer mentioned, the dictionary defines prejudice as a preconceived opinion
that is not based on reason or actual experience, a preconceived opinion.
That has to do with how we think and how we feel.
Thoughts that likely have been shaped by our personal experiences,
our upbringing and our environment.
And maybe when we think of prejudice, perhaps our minds go to or we focus on racial prejudice,
hatred or animosity towards someone, we talked a little bit about that last week.
But the watchtower also mentioned that prejudice can also be formed against another person
because of their weight, gender, language, social status, religion,
or virtually any perceived difference.
So if prejudice starts with our personality, our personal preconceived opinions,
then the way to overcome it has to start by elevating our minds to God's way of thinking.
Again, if we go back to the Bible, this time to 1 Samuel 16.
Notice how Jehovah brings this to light.
1 Samuel 16, and let's recall what happens when Samuel goes to the House of Jesse
to appoint one of his sons as king.
Verse 6, it says, as they came in and he saw a light, he said,
surely, here before Jehovah's stance is anointed one,
but Jehovah said to Samuel,
do not pay attention to his appearance and how tall he is before I have rejected him.
Now we stop there a moment. Did you notice what Samuel did?
In this particular instance, he was as that Greek phrase denoted,
a taker of faces, wasn't he?
He looked at Elias, he saw how tall, how handsome he looked,
surely this must be Jehovah's choice.
But note how the verse continues, note to teaching point,
for the way man sees is not the way God sees,
because mere man sees what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.
That's what matters to Jehovah.
What's in our heart? What we are on the inside,
and he's looking for those qualities in each of us that reflect his impartiality.
Now how does this have benefited to us since you and I cannot read hearts?
Well, let's go back to the study note.
The rest of the study note for Acts 1034 gives us the answer,
because it says imitating God's impartiality means not making surface judgments,
but paying attention to the character and quality of others.
Now perhaps one way we can illustrate this is with the example of a geode.
Now you look at this picture on its outside surface,
a geode looks pretty ordinary and nondescript,
no different than any big rock or stone you'd find outside.
But if you break it open,
quite a different story.
Now when you look inside,
you see these beautiful sparkling crystals of varying colors
that are just quite beautiful and really radiant to the eye.
Well, what's our point?
When we make surface judgments,
or preconceived opinions about our brothers,
often aren't we looking at them like the outside of that geode?
All we see is just the external surface.
It isn't so true, perhaps if someone is shy, quiet, or reserved,
it's so easy to label them, isn't it?
We size them up and we quickly come to the conclusion now,
you know what, that's not much there.
They really don't have much to offer.
Or it could be that the person is very talkative, loud, extroverted.
Same thing.
We label them form an opinion.
Could it be in those particular instances that we have become a takeer of faces?
We've made a judgment purely based on personal opinion
or what we feel is acceptable.
But to imitate Jehovah's way of thinking,
we have to go beyond the surface.
We have to focus on the character and the qualities of our brothers.
And with some people, that may take time.
You know what the geode, one expert stated,
there are many different ways to open a geode.
But no matter how you do it,
the key is patience, patience, patience.
And in the intro, this is the same with our brothers.
It takes time and patience to get to know them.
Time and patience to understand the way that they think,
to show personal interest by asking questions,
to work with them in the ministry and to consider their suggestions.
But when we do, we'll reward it.
We began to see the crystals.
We began to see their inner beauty inside.
We discovered true depth in our brothers and sisters,
and hopefully they do in us as well.
Now going back to Jesus Disciples,
while the Bible candidly details a number of accounts
showing their human traits and their prejudicial feelings at times,
it also highlights how they overcame those feelings.
Just look at how much we read and meditate on the Christian Greek scriptures.
And how much those verses and books emphasize love,
opening our hearts, loving our brothers,
getting along with one another, and widening out.
The disciples did not allow any deep-rooted feelings,
or things from their upbringing,
or their environment to control them.
And you and I can be the same.
But it all starts with an honest self-examination.
Can I identify any traces of prejudice within me?
And if we can, well, it all starts with our thinking,
elevating our thinking to Jehovah's way of thinking.
Let's avoid surface judgments, being a takeer of faces.
Let's take the time to get to know our brothers
and appreciate their character and qualities, their inner beauty.
Jesus told His disciples at Matthew chapter 23 verse 8,
all of you are brothers.
And what made them brothers?
Matthew chapter 12 verse 50,
Jesus said, for whoever does the will of my Father,
that one is my brother, and sister, and mother.
It's a nice reminder, isn't it?
We are all part of a large spiritual family,
united by our faith and love for God.
And if we see each other that way,
that will help us to remain humble and recognize
that we have no reason to elevate ourselves above others.
Instead, we're going to be filled with so much love and appreciation
to be part of this organization
as we imitate our impartial God and Father, Jehovah.